one of my boys there is a little bit
late in growing he's kind of smallest
kid in school he's also one of the best
athletes in the school but he has a hard
time with the fact that hasn't grown yet
and my favorite professional football
player plays on the New England Patriots
it's not actually even Tom Brady it's a
guy named Julian Edelman and I I just
like him so much because he's such a
scrapper they say that he's little but
he's 510 which is little when you play
in a field of giants a game of giants
like he does just he's only 510 and his
dad and Sports Illustrated said I laugh
when they call him little because we
were pretty happy to get him to 510 as
dad said he didn't go through puberty
until he was 17 here's a little shrimp
smallest kid in this school but his
senior year in high school he finally
started to grow and he's just a fierce
tiger he just it's not the size of the
man in the fight it's the size of the
fight and the man and he embodies that
whole statement and he was such a good
athlete such a little guy but such a
good athlete they made him quarterback
of the high school football team and he
led him to a 13 in Oh season and then he
went to college no college would take
him so he's a walk-on starter at a
junior college football team as
quarterback and then Kent State picked
him up to run an option offense and he
broke all kinds of records and he's just
he's lightning quick he's like a cat and
he played quarterback all through those
years at Kent State but there was no way
that he was going to make it into the
NFL as a quarterback and so he didn't
know how he was going to play what
position in the NFL he just knew he
wanted to play in the NFL
and unlike Tim Tebow who wouldn't get
off of being a quarterback even when
people told him you could probably make
it if you'd switched position he never
would you know who knows why Edelman's
shifted immediately whatever it took and
he he was the quickest shuttle speed in
the entire 2009 draft but like I say
it's just like a cat just as quick as a
cat 3.91 it was by far the quickest
shuttle speed in the 2009 draft except
he hadn't even been invited to the
combine he wasn't on anybody's radar
screen and somebody sent me the other
day a little 90-second video you can see
it on my blog and the video is Edelman
himself read
his official 2009 NFL draft report while
it shows him working out and and doing
like a box jump then landing on top of
something practically as high as this
podium and exploding off the line in
practice and leaving the defender behind
it's just really sweet he's working out
like crazy while he's reading the
following Julian Edelman 5 foot 10
inches 198 pounds position undetermined
he's too small and unconventional maybe
he could provide enough competition to
push more established players there are
questions about his durability and he's
unknown as a wide receiver a player like
Edelman could find a role maybe on
special teams perhaps he's just a camp
arm to get the wide receivers some more
work it's unlikely Edelman is being
brought to New England to make any
impact
he's a gimmick prospect who lacks a true
position at the next level a reach in
the seventh and the final round of the
NFL Draft and then Edelman says Edelman
by the way who who caught the most
passes in the Superbowl and many think
he was the MVP and not Brady and he we
saw him not on TV but live he was open
on almost every single play he wears
these red gloves and he has this
attitude he carries on his shoulder and
he never gets tackled by the first guy
he always makes a mess it's so extremely
fun to watch and all through his life
people have told him you're too small
you don't have what it takes you don't
you don't you're not the right position
and his his response to that is this bet
against me bet against me and he
finished the video by saying this there
are only two things you can do when
someone says you're not good enough you
can prove them right or you can prove
them wrong
and that great and I thought it's almost
good if you have a critic it's almost
good if someone thinks you don't measure
up it's almost good if you've got a
little chip on your shoulder it's pretty
good it's pretty healthy if you keep it
within bounds to be the underdog to be
the overachiever to not quite look the
part to not quite be the part to not to
be the right this or the right that it
helps to be hungry and determine and
have something to prove that's why I
love sports because the analogies are so
readily at hand and it's such a great
analogy and a great metaphor for life
and we can learn so much from the
principles that work everywhere
sometimes it means you're going to have
to get mad sometimes it means you're
going to have to have something to prove